One of the few hurdles in the matters of effective and productive farming is the growth of weeds  which spoil the actual outcome of farming as they affect the growth of planted plants. Recognition of weeds is the problem of accurately identifying the species of weeds so that specific measures can be taken for dealing with them. This includes different types of controlling measures for differently evolved species and different types of herbicides on different species of plants which would result in minimum spraying on the other plants of interest and the soil surrounding it. This can be further used to detect the presence of weeds in a particular region. Removal or controlling of weeds is necessary in order to have healthy crops to maximize yield.
Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) has been used as a visual analyzing tool for the past few years and has shown mammoth success. It has become sort of a standard for image processing in the areas of Machine Learning and Deep Learning. CNN is also widely used in image analysis, image segmentation, and video recognition. The credit for the success can be given to CNN for its ability to have a variety of parameters. This has led us to achievements that were not possible in the past using conventional ANNs. Another important thing about CNN is that the images that are to be processed do not need to have spatially dependent features. In other words, images can have different backgrounds, can be in different positions, and yet be processed.
This approach of weed species recognition can be used for the correct identification of weed species. This can be further used for controlling the spread and evolution of the weeds. This approach with this accuracy can be used for farming and general usage, which continue getting influenced by automation. Usage of herbicides should be as little as possible and without harming nearby plants and soil. Weed detection, which is sort of a subsidiary of weed recognition, can be used for that cause. This will not only result in better crop health and farm yields but also help prevent the quality of soil from degrading. 
